---
title: NS Setup
date: 2015-10-09 19:38 UTC
tags: 
  - sysadmin
  - setup
  - bind9
---

The NS server of choice is the bind9 server (named) which would be configured
for providing a DNS server service for a local subnet 192.168.1.0/24.

Each server needs to be set to the IP for this DNS server in its `/etc/resolv.conf`


Installation
------------

We install bind9 from the package managers.

For CentOS 7 - minimal, the commands to install are.

    yum install -y epel-release
    yum install -y bind bind-utils

If you are behind a proxy, first set teh env variable before running yum

    export {http,https,ftp,rsync,socks}_proxy='http://proxy.example.com:8080'
    export no_proxy='comma, separated, hosts, for, which, no, proxy, need, be, applied'


Configuration
-------------

All configuration is done via editing the named.conf. The location of this file
varies depending upon your OS.

In CentOS - 7 it is located in the /etc/named.conf

We create a demo new domain here, and enable recursion to some other primary
nameserver. We also create a trusted ACL to manage access.

After editing named.conf looks something like this

    acl "trusted" { // Create a Trusted ACL for trusted networks.
        192.168.1.0/24;
        10.8.0.0/16;
    };

    options {
        listen-on port 53 { // Listen for connections from all IP.
            127.0.0.1;
            any;
        };
        listen-on-v6 port 53 { // Listen for IPv6 from localhost.
            ::1;
        };
        directory "/var/named"; // Place where zonefiles are
        dump-file "/var/named/data/cache_dump.db";
        statistics-file "/var/named/data/named_stats.txt";
        memstatistics-file "/var/named/data/named_mem_stats.txt";

        allow-query { // Allow only localhost and trusted to query the nameserver
                      // It shows REFUSED for all others.
            localhost;
            trusted;
        };
        allow-recursion { // Allow only localhost and trusted to use recursion
            localhost;
            trusted;
        };
        allow-transfer { // Do not allow zone transfer.
            none;
        };
        forwarders { // Forward requests to thsese if non authoratative.
            10.4.3.222;
            10.4.20.204;
        };
        recursion yes; // Allow recustion

        dnssec-enable no; 
        dnssec-validation no;
        dnssec-lookaside auto;
    
        /* Path to ISC DLV key */
        bindkeys-file "/etc/named.iscdlv.key";
    
        managed-keys-directory "/var/named/dynamic";
    };
    
    logging {
        channel default_debug {
            file "data/named.run";
            severity dynamic;
        };
    };
    
    zone "." IN { // Show hint to '.' servers for '.'
        type hint;
        file "named.ca";
    };
    
    zone "nonexistant." IN { // Authoratative for "nonexistant"
        type master;
        file "nonexistant.forward";
    };
    
    zone "1.168.192.in-addr.arpa." IN { // Authoratative for rDNS as well
        type master;
        file "1.168.192.in-addr.arpa.forward";
    };
    
    include "/etc/named.rfc1912.zones";
    include "/etc/named.root.key";
    

Zone Files
----------

The bind9 looks at the dir 'directory' in the config and looks there for the zone
files. 

The zonefile is simple to make, with a SOA record, on which other records are 
added. 


For example, here is the nonexistant.forward

    $TTL 3600
    @ SOA ns.nonexistant. nonexistant.nonexistant. (8 15m 5m 30d 1h)
        NS ns.nonexistant.
        A 192.168.1.6

    login   IN  A   192.168.1.7
    ns  IN  A   192.168.1.6
    ldap    IN  A   192.168.1.5
    vpn IN  A   192.168.1.4
    base    IN  A   192.168.1.1

And for the reverse lookup, the 1.168.192.in-addr.arpa.forward


    $TTL 3600
    @ SOA ns.nonexistant. nonexistant.nonexistant. (10 15m 5m 30d 1h)
        NS ns.nonexistant.

    7   PTR login.nonexistant.
    6   PTR ns.nonexistant.
    5   PTR ldap.nonexistant.
    4   PTR     vpn.nonxistant.
    1   PTR base.nonxistant.

Be sure to increment the serial numbers when making a change to the zone files.


Starting service
----------------

Start the service by using the 

    service named start

On using 

    service named status

the logs are printed in the /var/log/messages.


Restricting IPv6 for IPv4 only Network
--------------------------------------

For setting the bind9 server to serve ipv4 only addreses, you need to enable the following options in the `/etc/named.conf`

    filter-aaaa-on-v4 yes;
